\documentclass[a4paper, halfparskip+, DIV20, 10pt]{scrartcl}
\usepackage[latin1]{inputenc}
\usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
\usepackage{amsmath}
\usepackage[round]{natbib}
\usepackage{mathpazo}
 
\hyphenation{Tech-ni-sche}
\begin{document}
\title{\LARGE Desirabilitiy functions in multicriteria optimization \\
  \LARGE Observations made while implementing \texttt{desiRe}}
\author{%
  \large Olaf Mersmann$^{\text{1}}$
  \and \large Heike Trautmann$^{\text{1}}$
  \and \large Detlef Steuer$^{\text{2}}$
  \and \large Claus Weihs$^{\text{1}}$
  \and \large Uwe Ligges$^{\text{1}}$
}
\date{}
\maketitle
\thispagestyle{empty}
\footnotetext[1]{Fakultät Statistik, Technische Universität Dortmund}
\footnotetext[2]{Fakultät WiSo, Helmut-Schmidt Universität Hamburg}
 
\vskip-3em Desirability functions and desirability indices are
powerful tools for multicriteria optimization und multicriteria
quality control purposes. The package \texttt{desiRe} not only
provides functions for computing desirability functions of Harrington-
\citep{harrington1965} and Derringer/Suich-type \citep{derringer1980}
but also allows the specification of functions in an interactive
manner. Density and distribution functions of the desirability
functions and the desirabi\-lity index are integrated including the
possibility of random number generation \citep{steuer2005},
\citep{trautmann2006}. Optimization procedures for the desirability
index and a method for determining the uncertainty of the optimum
influence factor levels \citep{trautmann2004a} as wells as a control
chart for the desirability index with analysis of out-of
control-signals are implemented \citep{trautmann2004}. The
Desirability Pareto-Concept allows focussing on relevant parts of the
Pareto-front by integrating a-priori-expert-knowledge in the
multicriteria optimization process \citep{mehnen2007}.

We will focus on the implementation of the Desirability Pareto-Concept
in \textsf{R}. First we will give a short review of the traditional
optimization strategy using desirability indices. Then, after
showcasing NSGA-II \citep{dep2002}, we will briefly talk about how
desirability functions can be integrated into optimization procedures
that estimate the pareto front. Finally some of the problems faced
during the development will be discussed. These include interfacing
\textsf{R} and \textsf{C} code and using functions as first class objects.

%% Kann man das so schreiben? Oder lieber ankündigen und ggf. unter
%% den Tisch fallen lassen? Es ist ja jetzt doch wieder sehr viel für
%% 15 min.
In addition a short overview of the package will be given.
 
\bibliography{useR_2008-abstract}{}
\bibliographystyle{plainnat}
\end{document}
 
%% (set-fill-column 90)
